Adding Gov docs and updating community guides (#274)
berachain/docs: apps/core/content/learn/governance/index.md

---
head:
  - - meta
    - property: og:title
      content: Berachain Governance
  - - meta
    - name: description
      content: How Berachain's Governance Works
  - - meta
    - property: og:description
      content: How Berachain's Governance Works
---

# Berachain Governance

> Berachain's Governance system uses BGT to allow token holders to make important decisions about core functions of Proof of Liquidity & our core dapps. Here's a few examples of what governance can be used for:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Berachain's Governance system uses `$BGT` to allow token holders to make important decisions about core functions of Proof-of-Liquidity & our core dapps. Here are a few examples of what governance can be used for:
```

> - PoL asset whitelisting (e.g., new staking assets, whitelisting incentive assets)
> - $HONEY minting parameters (e.g., eligible collateral assets, minting rates)
> - Native dApp governance (e.g., changes to Bend's interest rate model)
>   - Berps
>   - Bend
>   - Bex
> - Whitelisting Rewards Vaults for BGT emissions

Reviewer: Isn't the first related to the last item?

```suggestion
1. `$HONEY` minting parameters (e.g., eligible collateral assets, minting rates)
2. Native dApp governance for BEX, Berps, & Bend (e.g., changes to Bend's interest rate model)
3. Whitelisting Rewards Vaults for `$BGT` emissions
```

> ## Governance Process

Reviewer: This section I would remove specifics on amounts of BGT and number of hours and add a section just after the steps with Testnet values.

Example.

```md
## Governance Process

The governance process on Berachain follows several stages.

![Governance Process](/assets/governance-process.png)

1. **Proposal Creation**: Any user with sufficient voting power (meeting a minimum amount of `$BGT`) can create a governance proposal.

...

### Testnet Governance Values

| State | Criteria |
| ----------- | ----------- |
| Proposal Creation | 1000 `$BGT` Required |
| Pending State | 3-hour waiting period |
| Proposal Outcome | 2 billion `$BGT` required reach quorum  |
...
```

The governance process on Berachain follows several stages:

> 1. **Proposal Creation**: Any user with sufficient voting power (at least 1000 $BGT) can create a governance proposal.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Proposal Creation**: Any user with sufficient voting power (meeting a minimum amount of `$BGT`) can create a governance proposal.
```

2. **Pending State**: Once created, the proposal enters a 3-hour waiting period before becoming active for voting.

3. **Active Voting**: The voting period lasts for 3 hours. During this time, $BGT holders can cast their votes.

4. **Proposal Outcome**: After the voting period, the proposal is either marked as Succeeded or Defeated. A quorum of 2 billion $BGT is required for a proposal to pass.

5. **Timelock**: If the proposal succeeds, it enters a queue with a 3-hour timelock delay.

6. **Execution**: After the timelock period, the proposal can be executed, implementing the proposed changes.

![Governance Process](/assets/governance-process.png)

## Creating a Governance Proposal

To create a governance proposal on Berachain:

> 1. **Ensure Sufficient Voting Power**: You need at least 1000 $BGT, either owned directly or delegated to you by other token holders.

Reviewer: See above comment and see where you can consolidate specific values to one section, aka remove 1000 $BGT.

2. **Delegate $BGT**: Even if you own the required $BGT, you must delegate it to yourself (or have it delegated by others) to gain voting power.

3. **Prepare Your Proposal**: Clearly define the changes you want to implement. For example, to add a Reward Vault to the BeraChef contract, you would need to specify the vault address and the function call to update the "friends of the chef."

4. **Submit the Proposal**: Use the governance contract to submit your proposal on-chain. This typically involves calling a `propose` function with the necessary parameters.

5. **Monitor and Participate**: Once submitted, monitor your proposal's progress through the various stages. Encourage other $BGT holders to vote and participate in discussions about your proposal.

6. **Execute if Passed**: If your proposal passes and completes the timelock period, you or another user can execute it to implement the changes.

> For a detailed walkthrough of creating a governance proposal, including code examples and step-by-step instructions, please refer to our [full tutorial](https://github.com/berachain/rewards-vault-tutorial).

Reviewer 2: link 404s
